README.md, before:

# Times Higher Education take home test

At Time Higher Education our aim is give the best insights we can into higher education for both students and academics. In this test, we'd like to give you a taste of that and give you the opportunity to show us how you could improve this

In this repository we've given you some autogenerated dummy data about some higher education institutions and example submission data. What we would like you to do is take this data and do something interesting with it; there are some suggestions below to inspire you but feel free to use your imagination.

The aim is to have something to show us what interests you technically, and have something concrete to talk about in the later technical interview. There are no hard and fast rules but there some guidelines as to what we're expecting:

 - Ideally spend between 1 to 2 hours on the problem; you can spend a little more if you want but we don't want this to be a chore or an exercise of how much you can achieve in a time limit. We'd rather have one solid interesting technical point to talk about than a very wide but shallow app.
 - Based on the time constraints, it's better to think small and complete and have ideas of what/how you'd do something bigger. Part of the technical interview will be looking at the limitations of what you did and talking through what you'd do if had more time.
 - We would like to see some code/scripts of what you've done; ideally we'd prefer it in JS/Typescript but any reasonably modern language is fine.
 - Likewise we're not expecting something production ready, but it should reflect how you approach the problem normally rather than something you'd throw away afterwards.

# Files

There are two files, `institutions.json` and `submissions.json`; an institution is a university or other higher education body, and a submission is some data they told us about themselves for a particular year. There is a foreign key from submission to institution and broadly speaking the fields are fairly self explanatory. N.B. this data is auto generated so there may not be obvious trends and numbers may not add up to produce totals you'd expect.

# Suggestions
Here are a list of some examples of things you could do with the data; feel free to use one of these but also feel free to try something else if you feel inspired.

Look at the data and see how it could be enhanced or what insights could be gained from it:
 - Produce a list of the best institutions to study a particular subject
 - Enhance the data by adding some new data e.g. adding how many [Covid-19 cases](https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-data) there have been per country/institution (N.B. as our dataset names are made up, feel free to amend them to show it working)

Show us how you could setup a service to manage this sort of data:
 - Create an API that would be able to serve the data to a frontend to render
 - Setup storage mechanism to store the data and allow for adding new data (rather than using static JSON files)

Display and interact the data:
 - Display some submission data per institution for each year in either a table or chart
 - Show a list of subjects and which institutions you can study them at

Commit message:

update README to add more specific steps + info on scaffolding

README.md, after:

# Times Higher Education take home test

At Time Higher Education our aim is give the best insights we can into higher education for both students and academics. In this test, we'd like to give you a taste of that and give you the opportunity to show us what you can do.

In this repository you'll find some autogenerated dummy data (inside `example-data`) about some higher education institutions and example submission data. What we would like you is to build a very basic app to retrieve this data from a database and visualise it in a React app.

## Scaffolding

You'll find some scaffolding within the repo, you are not expected to use this but will hopefully find using it speeds up the process of getting started.

We've provided you with:

- A basic client app boostrapped using [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app). See [`./client/README.md` for more info.
- A basic server using Express with [BabelJS](https://babeljs.io) preconfigured and a basic test. See [`./server/README.md` for more info.
- A `.nvmrc` file to set the Node version using [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm). You can use a different Node version if you wish, the scaffolding has been created and tested using `v16.13.0`.
- A `docker-compose.yml` file to start a Postgres database, you can use a local database if you'd prefer.

## Example Data

There are two data files inside `./example-data`, `institutions.json` and `submissions.json`; an institution is a university or other higher education body, and a submission is some data they told us about themselves for a particular year. There is a foreign key from submission to institution and broadly speaking the fields are fairly self explanatory. N.B. this data is auto generated so there may not be obvious trends and numbers may not add up to produce totals you'd expect.

## Task

It is expected you will spend around 2 hours on the task, please do not spend any more than 4 hours. You are not expected to complete it, what is more intesting to us is how you think and go about solving problems.

Please tackle the task in the same way as you would approach any other problem, there are no wrong answers or gotchas. You are free to use any tools or libraries you see fit, the only expectation is that you complete the task using JavaScript (or TypeScript if you'd prefer) and React. If you do use any additional libraries are tools, please be prepared to explain your choice and how you used them. There is no need to create a beautiful app, although we do expect some basic styling to layout and style content.

1. Create a relational database schema to store the data in `institutions.json` and `submissions.json` & add the example data to the table
2. Create a page to list institutions (showing a minimum of name and country) and allow filtering by institution name.
3. Add the ability to sort institutions by name or country.
4. Enhance the page you created in step 2 so that when a user clicks on an institution name the UI lists the submissions for that institution.
5. For each institution, show a basic graph that visualises their income over time (for each year they have submitted data). You may wish to create some more fake data to give you some more interesting graphs.

## Follow up

Once you have complete the task please make sure you have committed your work and crete an archive using `git archive --format=zip -o THE_coding_test.zip HEAD`, then submit it to us along with any notes you wish to provide.

The next step will be a pair programming exercise where you will add more functionality to the application you have created.
